# Sweph-Wasm
Using Sweph (Swiss Ephemeris) with Wasm (Emscripten)  

Based on code written by @randogoth [sublunar.almanac](https://github.com/randogoth/sublunar.almanac).  
I extrapolated the sweph part with wasm and I created this web application that allows you to query the functions of the Swiss Ephemeris to generate ephemeris.


The application is ready to run.  
The compiled files are:  
<blockquote>

  
astro.data (contains sweph files - **virtual file system**)  
astro.js (browser readable file)  
astro.wasm (binaries)

</blockquote>
To use the application run the index.html file using a local web server (localhost).

If you run the index.html file (file://) directly, browsers create a Cors error.  
If you don't have a local web server you can use the **emrun** command (see below).

# Virtual file system
The most important change was the creation of a virtual file system.  
Emscripten allows you to embed files that will be used within application. Specifically, it creates a file with the ".data" extension which will contain all of the additional files.  
To create a vfs you need to pass a parameter to the compiler (in the Makefile) indicating the directory containing the files, in our case "eph"

<blockquote>
--preload-file eph 
</blockquote>
The compiler will create a ".data" file containing all the files in the folder.


From code just make sweph point to the "eph" directory 

<blockquote>
swe_set_ephe_path("eph");
</blockquote>

[Here the documentation](https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/files/packaging_files.html)

# How to compile
Make sure Emscripten is installed and working :slightly_smiling_face:. [Here the documentation](https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html)  
From Command Line Interface (CLI) change to the sweph-wasm/lib/src directory.  
To execute
<blockquote>

make astro (compile sweph files and astro.c file)
  
make install (copy the files generated by the compiler to the right directory)
  
</blockquote>


# Emrun
If you don't have a local web server (localhost) you can use the emrun command.  
Just add **--emrun** to your compiler (Makefile), compile. 

To run the application: 
<blockquote>
emrun index.html 
</blockquote>

[Here the documentation](https://emscripten.org/docs/compiling/Running-html-files-with-emrun.html)

# Sweph files ephemeris
The application loads these three files into the virtual file system: 

<blockquote>
  
  
seas_18.se1  
semo_18.se1  
sepl_18.se1  
  

</blockquote>

These are sweph's high-precision ephemeris files.  
These files have a date range from the year 1800 to 2400.  
If you want to widen the date range just add the others files in the sweph-wasm/lib/src/eph directory and compile.  
The compiler will add all the files present in the directory and create the astro.data file.  

Command:
<blockquote>
  
  
make astro  
make install  
  
  
</blockquote>


# How does it work

The astro.c file contains the logic to create the ephemeris. It interfaces with sweph and also contains functions that can be called from javascript.

A "web worker" is created from the browser which calls the "astro.js" file.

The web worker issues commands to functions in the astro.c file which returns a formatted string to the web worker. The return string is then processed by javascript.

The astro.js file is one of the files that is created by the compiler.

 # To do
 Return a string in json format from the astro.c file.
 

